---
title: "A review of chitosan role in milk bioactive-based drug delivery, smart packaging and biosensors: Recent advances and developments"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/20
excerpt: 'This review is about chitosan and milk-derived bioactive delivery, milk packaging and milk biosensors.'
date: 2024-12-29
venue: 'International Journal of Biological Macromolecules'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.139248'
---
<address class="author">Authors: Hossein Hasannezhad<sup>1</sup>, <a rel="author" href="https://bakhshiali.github.io">Ali Bakhshi</a><sup>1</sup>, M.R. Mozafari, Seyed Morteza Naghib
</address><br>

<p align="justify" style="padding-left: 1em">
Chitosan, a versatile biopolymer derived from chitin, is increasingly recognized in the milk industry for its multifunctional 
  applications in drug delivery, smart packaging, and biosensor development. This review provides a comprehensive analysis of 
  recent advances in chitosan production techniques. These include chemical, biological, and novel methods such as deep eutectic 
  solvents (DES), microwave-assisted approaches, and laser-assisted processes. Surface modification strategies to enhance its 
  functional properties are also discussed. The review highlights the development of various chitosan-based nanocarriers, 
  including nanoparticles, nanofibers, nanogels, and nanocomposites. It emphasizes their stability when combined with milk 
  bioactive ingredients like lipids, peptides, lactose, and minerals. The gastrointestinal fate and safety of chitosan nanoparticles 
  are critically evaluated, showcasing their potential for safe consumption in dairy-related applications. In drug delivery systems, 
  chitosan exhibits excellent compatibility with milk-derived carbohydrates, proteins, and minerals, enabling the development of 
  innovative drug delivery platforms. Additionally, its incorporation into smart packaging materials enhances the shelf-life and 
  quality of dairy products. Chitosan-based biosensors offer precise contaminant detection in the milk industry by enabling precise 
  detection of contaminants such as Bisphenol A, melamine, bacteria, drugs, antibiotics, toxins, heavy metals, and allergens, thus 
  ensuring food safety and quality. Emerging trends, including the integration of artificial intelligence, advanced gene editing, 
  and multifunctional chitosan, are discussed, offering insights into future personalized delivery systems and merging food and 
  drug technologies. The review concludes by highlighting gaps in current research and offering recommendations for future exploration. 
  These suggestions aim to optimize chitosan's unique properties to address key challenges in the milk industry. This article serves as 
  a valuable resource for researchers, industry professionals, and policymakers aiming to innovate within the dairy sector using chitosan-based technologies.
</p>
<cite> Hossein Hasannezhad, Ali Bakhshi, M.R. Mozafari, Seyed Morteza Naghib 
A review of chitosan role in milk bioactive-based drug delivery, smart packaging and biosensors: Recent advances and developments, 139248
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.139248
</cite>
1 These authors contributed equally to this work.

<b>Full-Texts</b>
<details>
<summary>Sciencedirect</summary>
  <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.139248"> https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.139248 </a>
</details>
<details>
<summary>Researchgate</summary>
  <a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/387510153_A_review_of_chitosan_role_in_milk_bioactive-based_drug_delivery_smart_packaging_and_biosensors_Recent_advances_and_developments"> https://www.researchgate.net/publication/387510153_A_review_of_chitosan_role_in_milk_bioactive-based_drug_delivery_smart_packaging_and_biosensors_Recent_advances_and_developments </a>
</details>
