---
title: "Molecularly imprinted polymers in zeolitic imidazolate frameworks: A comprehensive review"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/23
excerpt: 'This article is about novel field of molecularly imprinted polymers and zeolitic imidazolate frameworks.'
date: 2025-03-14
venue: 'Coordination Chemistry Reviews'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2025.216561'
---
<address class="author">Authors: <a rel="author" href="https://bakhshiali.github.io">Ali Bakhshi</a>, Mehrdad Roshan, Mohammad Sadegh Asgari, Fatemeh Bijari, Ali Maleki
</address><br>

<p align="justify" style="padding-left: 1em">
The convergence of molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) and zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIFs) (MIP-ZIFs) represents 
  a groundbreaking class of hybrid materials with immense potential across a range of cutting-edge applications, including 
  drug delivery, nanobiosensors, and advanced adsorbent nanomaterials. This review highlights the critical need for 
  innovative materials combining tailored molecular recognition with versatile structural properties to address complex 
  sensing, separation, catalysis, and therapeutics challenges. MIP-ZIFs, with their customizable cavities and high specificity, 
  offer unprecedented opportunities for targeted molecular interactions, enabling breakthroughs in gene regulation, 
  signaling pathway interpretation, controlled drug release, and catalytic conversions. To enhance their functionality, 
  surface modifications and blending with nanomaterials have been explored, introducing responsiveness to pH, magnetic fields, 
  light, temperature, and enzymatic activity. These advancements transform MIP-ZIFs into dynamic materials capable of acting as 
  actuators, sensors, and high-affinity sites tailored to specific demands such as purification, extraction, and biomedical 
  applications. This review stands out by systematically examining recent progress in the synthesis methodologies, mechanisms, 
  applications, clinical trials, and emerging trends in MIP-ZIF technology. By integrating insights from the latest literature 
  and patent landscapes, it underscores the challenges, novel opportunities, and interdisciplinary potential of these hybrid 
  materials. The analysis of patents was conducted using major databases, including the United States Patent and Trademark 
  Office (USPTO), Espacenet, Google Patents, Reaxys, and PatentScope, ensuring comprehensive coverage of global innovations 
  in the field. Scientific literature was reviewed through established platforms such as Scopus, Web of Science (WoS), 
  Reaxys, and Google Scholar, providing a robust foundation for examining the advancements in MIP-ZIF technologies. For 
  researchers and industry specialists, this review provides a vital roadmap to unlock the transformative capabilities of 
  MIP-ZIFs and to pave the way for future innovations in science and technology.
</p>
<cite> Ali Bakhshi</a>, Mehrdad Roshan, Mohammad Sadegh Asgari, Fatemeh Bijari, Ali Maleki, Molecularly imprinted polymers in zeolitic imidazolate frameworks: A comprehensive review, Coordination Chemistry Reviews 534 (2025), 216561.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2025.216561
</cite>

<b>Full-Texts</b>
<details>
<summary>Sciencedirect</summary>
  <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2025.216561"> https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2025.216561 </a>
</details>
<details>
<summary>Researchgate</summary>
  <a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/389839256_Molecularly_imprinted_polymers_in_zeolitic_imidazolate_frameworks_A_comprehensive_review/stats"> https://www.researchgate.net/publication/389839256_Molecularly_imprinted_polymers_in_zeolitic_imidazolate_frameworks_A_comprehensive_review/stats </a>
</details>
